If you could call a ten by six wooden box mounted on a four-wheel trailer an office, then I was sitting in
my office. I'd been sitting there for four hours, the ear-phones were beginning to hurt and the darkness
was coming in from the swamps and the sea. But if I had to sit there all night, then I was going to do just
that: those ear-phones were the most important thing in the world. They were the only remaining contact
between me and all the world held for me.
Peter should have been within radio range three hours ago. It was a long haul north from Barranquilla, but
we'd made that haul a score of times before. Our three DCs were old but as mechanically perfect as
unceasing care and meticulous attention could make them. Pete was a fine pilot, Barry a crack navigator,
the West Caribbean forecast had been good and it was far too early in the season for hurricanes.
There was no conceivable reason why they shouldn't have been on the air hours ago. As it was, they
must have already passed the point of nearest approach and be drawing away to the north, towards
Tampa, their destination. Could they have disobeyed my instructions to make the long dog-leg by the
Yucatan Strait and flown the direct route over Cuba instead? All sorts of unpleasant things could happen
to planes flying over war-torn Cuba those days. It seemed unlikely, and when I thought of the cargo they
were carrying it seemed impossible. Where any element of risk was concerned, Pete was even more
cautious and far-seeing than myself.
Over in the corner of my office on which a radio was playing softly. It was tuned in to some
English-speaking station and for the second time that evening some hill-billy guitar-player was singing
softly of the death of mother or wife or sweetheart, I wasn't sure which. " My red rose has turned to
white " it was called. Red for life and white for death. Red and white -- the colours of the three planes of
our Trans-Carib Air Charter service. I was glad when the song stopped.
There was nothing much else in the office. A desk, two chairs, a filing cabinet and the big R.C.A.
receiver-transmitter powered by a heavy T.R.S. cable that ran through the hole in the door and snaked
across the grass and mud and one corner of the tarmac to the main terminal buildings. And there was a
mirror. Elizabeth had put that up the only time she'd ever been here and I'd never got around to taking it
down.
I looked in the mirror and that Was a mistake. Black hair, black brows, dark blue eyes and a white
strained haggard face to remind me how desperately worried I was. As if I needed reminding. I looked
away and stared out of the window.
That was hardly any better. The only advantage was that I could no longer see myself. I certainly couldn't
see anything else. Even at the best of times there was little enough to see through that window, just the
ten empty desolate miles of flat swampland stretching from the Stanley Field airport to Belize, but now
that the Honduras rainy season had begun, only that morning, the tiny tidal waves of water rolling
endlessly down the single sheet of glass and the torn and lowering and ragged hurrying clouds driving
their slanting rain into the parched and steaming earth turned the world beyond the window into a grey
and misty nothingness.
I tapped out our call sign. The same result as the last five hundred times I'd tapped it. Silence. I altered
the waveband to check that reception was still O.K., heard a swift succession of voices, static, singing,
music, and homed back on our own frequency again.
The most important flight the Trans-Carib Air Charter Co. had ever made and I had to be stuck here in
our tiny sub-office waiting endlessly for the spare carburettor that never came. And until I got it that red
and white DC parked not fifty yards away on the apron was about as useful to me right then as a pair of
sun-glasses.
They'd have got off from Barranquilla, I was certain of that. I'd had the first news three days ago, the day
I'd arrived here, and the coded cable had made no mention of any possible trouble. Everything highly
secret, only three permanent civil servants knew anything about it, Lloyd's willing to carry the risk even
although at one of the highest premiums ever. Even the news, received in a radio report, of an attempted
coup d'etat yesterday by pro-dictatorship elements to try to prevent the election of the Liberal Lleras
hadn't concerned me too much, for although all military planes and internal services had been grounded,
foreign airlines had been excluded: with the state of Colombia's economy they couldn't afford to offend
even the poorest foreigners, and we just about qualified for that title.
But I'd taken no chances. I'd cabled Pete to take Elizabeth and John with him. If the wrong elements did
get in on May 4th -- that was to-morrow -- and found out what we'd done, the Trans-Carib Air Charter
Co. would be for the high jump. But fast. Besides, on the fabulous fee that was being offered for this one
freight haul to Tampa...
The phones crackled in my ears. Static, weak, but bang on frequency. As if someone was trying to tune
in. I fumbled for the volume switch, turned it to maximum, adjusted the band-switch a hair-line on either
side and listened as I'd never listened before. But nothing. No voices, no morse call sign, just nothing. I
eased off one of the earphones and reached for a packet of cigarettes.
The radio was still on. For the third time that evening, and less than fifteen minutes since I'd heard it last,
someone was again singing "My red rose has turned to white."
I couldn't stand it any longer. I tore off the phones, crossed to the radio, switched it off with a jerk that
almost broke the knob and reached for the bottle under my desk. I poured myself a stiff one, then
replaced the head-phones.
"CQR calling CQS. CQR calling CQS. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Over."
The whisky splashed across the desk, the glass fell and broke with a tinkling crash on the wooden floor
as I grabbed for the transmitter switch and mouthpiece.
"CQS here, CQS here!" I shouted. "Pete, is that you, Pete? Over."
"Me. On course, on time. Sorry for the delay." The voice was faint and faraway, but even the flat metallic
tone of the speaker couldn't rob it of its tightness, its anger.
"I've been sitting here for hours." My own anger sounded through my relief, and I was no sooner
conscious of it than ashamed of it. "What's gone wrong, Pete?"
"This has gone wrong. Some joker knew what we had aboard. Or maybe he just didn't like us. He put a
squib behind the radio. The detonator went off, the primer went off, but the charge -- gelignite or T.N.T.
or whatever -- failed to explode. Almost wrecked the radio -- luckily Barry was carrying a full box of
spares. He's only just managed to fix it."
My face was wet and my hands were shaking. So, when I spoke again, was my voice.
"You mean someone planted a bomb? Someone tried to blow the crate apart?"
"Just that."
"Anyone -- anyone hurt?" I dreaded the answer.
"Relax, brother. Only the radio."
"Thank God for that. Let's hope that's the end of it."
"Not to worry. Besides, we have a watchdog now. A U.S. Army Air Force plane has been with us for
the past thirty minutes. Barranquilla must have radioed for an escort to see us in." Peter laughed dryly.
"After all, the Americans have a fair interest in this cargo we have aboard."
"What kind of plane?" I was puzzled, it took a pretty good flier to move two or three hundred miles out
into the Gulf of Mexico and pick up an incoming plane without any radio directional bearing. "Were you
warned of this?'"
"No. But not to worry -- he's genuine, all right. We've just been talking to him. Knows all about us and
our cargo. It's an old Mustang, fitted with long-range tanks -- a jet fighter couldn't stay up all this time."
"I see." That was me, worrying about nothing, as usual.
"What's your course?"
"040 dead."
"Position?"
He said something which I couldn't catch. Reception was deteriorating, static increasing.
"Repeat, please?"
"Barry's just working it out. He's been too busy repairing the radio to navigate." A pause. "He says two
minutes."
"Let me talk to Elizabeth."
"Wilco."
Another pause, then the voice that was more to me than all the world. "Hallo, darling. Sorry we've given
you such a fright." That was Elizabeth. Sorry she'd given me a fright: never a word of herself.
"Are you all right? I mean, are you sure you're-----"
"Of course." Her voice, too, was faint and faraway, but the gaiety and the courage and the laughter
would have come through to me had she been ten thousand miles away. "And we're almost there. I can
see the lights of land ahead." A moment's silence, then very softly, the faintest whisper of sound. "I love
you, darling."
"Truly?"
"Always, always, always."
I leaned back happily in my chair, relaxed and at ease at last, then jerked forward, on my feet,
half-crouched over the transmitter as there came a sudden exclamation from Elizabeth and then the harsh,
urgent shout from Pete.
"He's diving on us! The bastard's diving on us and he's opened fire. All his guns! He's coming
straight-----"
The voice choked off in a bubbling, choking moan, a moan pierced and shattered by a high-pitched
feminine cry of agony and in the same instant of time there came to me the staccato thunderous crash of
exploding cannon-shells that jarred the ear-phones on my head. Two seconds it lasted, if that. Then there
was no more sound of gunfire, no more moaning, no more crying. Nothing.
Two seconds. Only two seconds. Two seconds to take from me all this life held dear for me, two
seconds to leave me alone in an empty and desolate and meaningless world.
My red rose had turned to white.
May 3rd, 1958.
CHAPTER I
I don't quite know what I had expected the man behind the raised polished mahogany desk to look like.
Subconsciously, I suppose, I'd looked for him to match up with those misconceptions formed by reading
and film-going -- in the far-off days when I had had time for such things -- that had been as extensive as
they had been hopelessly unselective. The only permissible variation in the appearances of county court
judges in the south-eastern United States, I had come to believe, was in weight -- some were dried-up,
lean and stringy, others triple-jowled and built to match -- but beyond that any departure from the norm
was unthinkable. The judge was invariably an elderly man: his uniform was a crumpled white suit,
off-white shirt, bootlace necktie and, on the back of his head, a panama with coloured band: the face
was usually red, the nose purplish, the drooping tips of the silver-white Mark Twain moustache stained
with bourbon or mint juleps or whatever it was they drank in those parts; the expression was usually
aloof, the bearing aristocratic, the moral principles high and the intelligence only moderate.
Judge Mollison was a big disappointment. He didn't match up with any of the specifications except
perhaps the moral principles, and those weren't visible. He was young, clean-shaven, impeccably dressed
in a well-cut light grey tropical worsted suit and ultra-conservative tie and, as for the mint-juleps, I doubt
if he'd ever as much as looked at a bar except to wonder how he might close it. He looked benign, and
wasn't: he looked intelligent, and was. He was highly intelligent, and sharp as a needle. And he'd pinned
me now with this sharp needle of his intelligence and was watching me wriggle with a disinterested
expression that I didn't much care for.
"Come, come," he murmured gently. "We are waiting for an answer, Mr. -- ah -- Chrysler." He didn't
actually say that he didn't believe that my name was Chrysler, but if any of the spectators on the benches
missed his meaning they should have stayed at home. Certainly the bunch of round-eyed schoolgirls,
courageously collecting credit marks for their civics course by venturing into this atmosphere of sin and
vice and iniquity, didn't miss it: neither did the sad-eyed dark-blonde girl sitting quietly on the front benchand even the big black ape-like character sitting three benches behind her seemed to get it. At least the
broken nose beneath the negligible clearance between eyebrows and hairline seemed to twitch. Maybe it
was just the flies. The court-room was full of them. I thought sourly that if appearances were in any way a
reflection of character he ought to be in the box while I was below watching him. I turned back to the
judge.
"That's the third time you've had trouble in remembering my name, Judge," I said reproachfully. "By and
by some of the more intelligent citizens listening here are going to catch on. You want to be more careful,
my friend."
"I am not your friend." Judge Mollison's voice was precise and legal and he sounded as if he meant it.
"And this is not a trial. There are no jurors to influence. This is only a hearing, Mr. -- ah -- Chrysler."
"Chrysler. Not ah-Chrysler. But you're going to make damned certain that there will be a trial, won't you,
Judge?"
"You would be advised to mind both your language and your manners," the judge said sharply. "Don't
forget I have the power to remand you in gaol -- indefinitely. Once again, your passport. Where is it?"
"I don't know. Lost, I suppose."
"Where?"
"If I knew that it wouldn't be lost."
"We are aware of that," the judge said dryly. "But if we could localise the area we could notify the
appropriate police stations where it might have been handed in. When did you first notice you no longer
had your passport and where were you at the time?"
"Three days ago -- and you know as well as I do where I was at the time. Sitting in the dining-room of
the La Contessa Motel, eating my dinner and minding my own business when Wild Bill Hickok here and
his posse jumped me." I gestured at the diminutive alpaca-coated sheriff sitting in a cane-bottomed chair
in front of the judge's bench and thought that there could be no height barriers for the law enforcement
officers of Marble Springs: the sheriff and his elevator shoes together couldn't have topped five feet four.
Like the judge, the sheriff was a big disappointment to me. While I had hardly expected a Wild West
lawman complete with Frontier Colt I had looked for something like either badge or gun. But no badge,
no gun. None that I could see. The only gun in sight in the court-house was a short-barrelled Colt
revolver stuck in the holster of the police officer who stood behind and a couple of feet to the right of me.
"They didn't jump you," Judge Mollison was saying patiently. "They were looking for a prisoner who had
escaped from the nearby camp of one of our state convict road forces. Marble Springs is a small town
and strangers easily identifiable. You are a stranger. It was natural-----"
"Natural!" I interruped. "Look, Judge, I've been talking to the gaoler. He says the convict escaped at six
o'clock in the afternoon. The Lone Ranger here picks me up at eight. Was I supposed to have escaped,
sawed off my irons, had a bath, shampoo, manicure and shave, had a tailor measure and fit a suit for me,
bought underclothes, shirt and shoes-----"
"Such things have happened before," the judge interrupted. "A desperate man, with a gun or club------"
" -- and grown my hair three inches longer all in the space of two hours?" I finished.
"It was dark in there, Judge-----" the sheriff began, but
Moilison waved him to silence.
"You objected to being questioned and searched. Why?"
"As I said I was minding my own business. I was in a respectable restaurant, giving offence to no one.
And where I come from a man doesn't require a state permit to enable him to breathe and walk around."
"He doesn't here either," the judge said patiently. "All they wanted was a driver's licence, insurance card,
social-security card, old letters, any means of identification. You could have complied with their request."
"I was willing to."
"Then why this?" The judge nodded down at the sheriff. I followed his glance. Even when I'd first seen
him in the La Contessa the sheriff had struck me as being something less than good-looking and I had to
admit that the large plasters on his forehead and across the chin and the comer of the mouth did nothing
to improve him.
"What else do you expect?" I shrugged. "When big boys start playing games little boys should stay home
with Mother." The sheriff was half-way out of his seat, eyes narrowed and ivory-knuckled fists gripping
the cane arms of his chair, but the judge waved him back impatiently. "The two gorillas he had with him
started roughing me up. It was self-defence."
"If they assaulted you," the judge asked acidly, "how do you account for the fact that one of the officers is
still in hospital with damaged knee ligaments and the other has a fractured cheekbone, while you are still
unmarked?"
"Out of training, Judge. The state of Florida should spend more money on teaching its law officers to look
after themselves. Maybe if they ate fewer hamburgers and drank less beer-----"
"Be silent!" There was a brief interval while the judge seemed to be regaining control of himself, and I
looked round the court again. The schoolgirls were still goggle-eyed, this beat anything they'd ever had in
their civics classes before: the dark-blonde in the front seat was looking at me with a curious half-puzzled
expression on her face, as if she were trying to work out something: behind her, his gaze lost in infinity,
the man with the broken nose chewed on the stump of a dead cigar with machine-like regularity: the court
reporter seemed asleep: the attendant at the door surveyed the scene with an Olympian detachment:
beyond him, through the open door, I could see the harsh glare of the late afternoon sun on the dusty
white street and beyond that again, glimpsed through a straggling grove of palmettos, the twinkling ripple
of sunlight reflecting off the green water of the Gulf of Mexico.... The judge seemed to have recovered his
composure.
"We have established," he said heavily, "that you are truculent, intransigent, insolent and a man of
violence. You also carry a gun -- a small-bore Liliiput, I believe it is called. I could already commit you
for contempt of court, for assaulting and obstructing constables of the law in the course of the
performance of their duties and for being in illegal possession of a lethal weapon. But I won't." He paused
for a moment, then went on: "We will have much more serious charges to prefer against you."
The court reporter opened one eye for a moment, thought better of it and appeared to go to sleep again.
The man with the broken nose removed his cigar, examined it, replaced it and resumed his methodical
champing. I said nothing.
"Where were you before you came here?" the judge asked abruptly.
"St. Catherine."
"I didn't mean that, but -- well, how did you arrive here from St. Catherine?"
"By car."
"Describe it -- and the driver."
"Green saloon -- sedan, you'd call it. Middle-aged businessman and his wife. He was grey, she was
blonde."
"That's all you can remember?" Mollison asked politely.
"That's all."
"I suppose you realise that description would fit a million couples and their cars?"
"You know how it is," I shrugged. "When you're not expecting to be questioned on what you've seen you
don't bother-----"
"Quite, quite." He could be very acid, this judge. "Out of state car, of course?"
"Yes. But not of course."
"Newly arrived in our country and already you know how to identify licence plates of------"
"He said he came from Philadelphia. I believe that's out of state."
The court reporter cleared his throat. The judge quelled him with a cold stare, then turned back to me.
"And you came to St. Catherine from-----?"
"Miami."
"Same car, of course?"
"No. Bus."
The judge looked at the clerk of the court, who shook his head slightly, then turned back to me. His
expression was less than friendly.
"You're not only a fluent and barefaced liar, Chrysler " -- he'd dropped the "Mister" so I assumed the
time for courtesies was past -- " but a careless one. There's no bus service from Miami to St. Catherine.
You stayed the previous night in Miami?"
I nodded.
"In a hotel," he went on. "But, of course, you will have forgotten the name of that hotel?"
"Well, as a matter of fact-----"
"Spare us." The judge held up his hand.. "Your effrontery passes all limits and this court will no longer be
trifled with. We have heard enough. Cars, buses, St. Catherine, hotels, Miami -- lies, all lies. You've
never been in Miami in your life. Why do you think we kept you on remand for three days?"
"You tell me," I encouraged him.
"I shall. To make extensive inquiries. We've checked with the immigration authorities and every airline
flying into Miami. Your name wasn't on any passenger or aliens list, and no one answering to your
description was seen that day. You would not be easily overlooked."
I knew what he meant, all right. I had the reddest hair and the blackest eyebrows I'd ever seen on
anyone and the combination was rather startling. I'd got used to it myself, but I had to admit it took a bit
of getting used to. And when you added to that a permanent limp and a scar that ran from the comer of
my right brow to the lobe of my right ear -- well, when it came to identification, I was the answer to the
policeman's prayer.
"As far as we can discover," the judge went on coldly, "you've spoken the truth once. Only once." He
broke off to look at the youth who had just opened the door leading to some chambers in the rear, and
lifted his eyebrows in fractional interrogation. No impatience, no irritation: all very calm: Judge Mollison
was no pushover.
"This just came for you, sir," the boy said nervously. He showed an envelope. "Radio message. I
thought-----"
"Bring it here." The judge glanced at the envelope, nodded at no one in particular, then turned back to
me.
"As I say, you told the truth just once. You said you had come here from Havana. You did indeed. You
left this behind you there. In the police station where you were being held for interrogation and trial." He
reached into a drawer and held up a small book, blue and gold and white. "Recognise it?"
"A British passport," I said calmly. "I haven't got telescopic eyes but I assume that it must be mine
otherwise you wouldn't be making such a song and dance about it. If you had it all the time, then
why-----?"
"We were merely trying to discover the degree of your mendacity, which is pretty well complete, and
your trustworthiness, which does not appear to exist." He looked at me curiously. "Surely you must know
what this means: if we have the passport, we have much else besides. You appear unmoved. You're a
very cool customer, Chrysler, or very dangerous: or can it be that you are just very stupid?"
"What do you want me to do?" I asked. "Faint?"
"Our police and immigration authorities happen, for the moment at least, to be on very good terms with
their Cuban colleagues." He might never have heard my interjection. "Our cables to Havana have
produced much more than this passport: 'they have produced much interesting information.
"Your name is not Chrysler, it's Ford. You have spent two and a half years in the West Indies, and are
well known to the authorities in all of the principal islands."
"Fame, Judge. When you've as many friends-----"
"Notoriety. Served three minor prison sentences in two years." Judge Mollison was skimming through a
paper he had in his hand. "No known means of support except three months working as consultant to a
Havana salvage and diving firm." He looked up at me. "And in what -- ah -- capacity did you serve this
firm?"
"I told 'em how deep the water was."
He regarded me thoughtfully then returned to his paper.
"Associate of criminals and smugglers," he went on.
"Chiefly of criminals known to be engaged in the stealing and smuggling of precious stones and metal
Known to have fomented, or attempted to foment, labour troubles in Nassau and Manzanillo, for ends
suspected to be other than political. Deported from San Juan, Haiti and Venezuela. Declared persona
non grata in Jamaica and refused landing permit in Nassau, Bahamas." He broke off and looked at me.
"A British subject -- and not even welcome in British territories."
"Sheer prejudice, Judge."
"You have, of course, made an illegal entry into the United States." Judge Mollison was a difficult man to
knock off his stride. "How, I don't pretend to know -- it happens constantly in those parts. Probably by
Key West and a landing at night somewhere between Port Charlotte and here. It doesn't matter. And so
now, in addition to assaulting officers of the law and carrying a gun without declaring it or possessing a
licence for it, you can be charged with illegal entry. A man with your record could collect a stiff sentence
for those, Ford.
"However, you won't. Not here, at least. I have consulted with the state immigration authorities and they
agree with me that what best meets the case is deportation: we wish no part of any person like you. We
understand from the Cuban authorities that you broke custody while being held on a charge of inciting
violence among dockworkers and on a further alleged charge of attempted shooting of the policeman
who arrested you. Such offences carry heavy penalties in Cuba. The first charge is not an extraditable
offence and on the second we have had no demand from the competent authorities. However, as I say,
we intend to work not under extradition laws but deportation laws -- and we're deporting you to
Havana. The proper authorities will be there to meet your plane when it lands to-morrow morning."
I stood still and said nothing. The court-room was very quiet. Presently I cleared my throat and said,
"Judge, I think that's downright unkind of you."
"It depends on the point of view," he said indifferently. He rose to go, caught sight of the envelope the
youth had brought in and said: "No, wait a moment," and sat down again, slitting open the envelope. He
smiled bleakly at me as he extracted the flimsy sheets of paper.
"We thought we would ask Interpol to find out what was known about you in your own country, although
I hardly think now there will be any further useful information. We have all we want.... No, no, I thought
not, nothing fresh here, not known... no longer listed. Wait a minute though!" The calm leisured voice
rose to a sudden shout that brought the somnolent reporter jack-in-the-box bolt upright and sent him
scurrying after notebook and pen that had spilled over the floor. "Wait a minute!"
He turned back to the first page of the cable.
"37b Rue Paul-Valery, Paris," he read rapidly. "Your request received, etc. etc. Regret inform you no
criminal listed in rotary card index under name of John Chrysler. Could be any of four others under alias,
but unlikely: identification impossible without cephalic index and fingerprints.
"Remarkable resemblance from your description to the late John Montague Talbot. Reasons for your
request and demand for urgency unknown but enclosed please find summarised copy of salient features
of Talbot's life. Regret unable help you further, etc.
"John Montague Talbot. Height 5 feet 11 inches, weight 185 lb., deep red hair parted far over on left
side, deep blue eyes, heavy black brows, knife scar above right eye, aquiline nose, exceptionally even
teeth. Carries left shoulder perceptibly higher than right owing to fairly severe limp."
The judge looked at me and I looked out the door: I had to admit the description was not at all bad.
"Date of birth unknown, probably early 1920's. Place of birth unknown. No record of war career.
Graduated Manchester University 1948 with B.Sc. in-engineering. Employed for three years by Siebe,
Gorman Co." He broke off, looked sharply at me. "Who are Siebe, Gorman Co.?"
"Never heard of them."
"Of course not. But I have. Very well-known European engineering firm specialising, among other things,
in all types of diving equipment. Ties in rather neatly with your employment with a salvage and diving firm
in Havana, doesn't it?" He obviously didn't expect an answer, for he carried on reading at once.
"Specialised in salvage and deep-water recovery. Left Siebe Gorman, joined Dutch salvage firm from
which dismissed after eighteen months following inquiries into whereabouts of two missing 28-lb. ingots
worth 60,000 dollars salvaged by firm in Bombay Harbour from the wreck of the ammunition and
treasure ship Fort Strikene which blew up there 14th April, 1944. Returned England, joined Portsmouth
salvage and diving firm, associated with ' Corners' Moran, notorious jewellery thief, during salvage work
on the Nantucket Light which sank off the Lizard, June 1955, carrying valuable cargo diamonds from
Amsterdam to New York. Salvaged jewels to the value of 80,000 dollars were found to be missing.
Talbot and Moran traced to London, arrested, escaped from police wagon when Talbot shot police
officer with small concealed automatic. Police officer subsequently died."
I was leaning far forward now, my hands gripped tightly on the edge of the box. Every eye was on me
but I had eyes only for the judge. There wasn't a sound to be heard in that stuffy court-room except the
drowsy murmur of flies high up near the ceiling and the soft sighing of a big overhead fan.
"Talbot and Moran finally traced to riverside rubber warehouse." Judge Mollison was reading slowly
now, almost haltingly, as if he had to take time to appreciate the significance of what he was saying.
"Surrounded, ignored order to surrender. For two hours resisted all attempts by police armed with guns
and tear-gas bombs to overcome them. Following explosion, entire warehouse swept by uncontrollable
fire of great intensity. All exits guarded but no attempt at escape. Both men perished in fire. Twenty-four
hours later firemen found no trace of Moran -- believed to have been almost completely incinerated.
Talbot's charred remains positively identified by ruby ring worn on left hand, brass buckles of shoes and
German 4.25 automatic which he was known to carry habitually...."
The judge's voice trailed off and he sat in silence several moments. He looked at me, wonderingly, as if
in the cane chair.
"A 4.25 mm. gun, Sheriff? Have you any idea------?"
"I do." The sheriff's face was cold and mean and hard and his voice exactly matched his expression.
"What we call a.21 automatic, and as far as I know there's only one of that kind made -- a German '
Lilliput'."
"Which was what the prisoner was carrying when you arrested him," It was a statement, not a question.
"And he's wearing a ruby ring on his left hand." The judge shook his head again, then looked at me for a
long, long moment: you could see that disbelief was slowly giving way to inescapable conviction. "The
leopard -- the criminal leopard -- never changes his spots. Wanted for murder -- perhaps two murders:
who knows what you did to your accomplice in that warehouse? It was his body they found, not yours?"
The court was hushed and shocked and still: a falling pin would have had the lot airborne.
"A cop-killer." The sheriff licked his lips, looked up at Mollison and repeated the words in a whisper. "A
cop-killer. Hell swing for that in England, won't he, Judge?"
The judge was on balance again.
"It's not within the jurisdiction of this court to-----"
"Water!" The voice was mine, and even to my own ears it sounded no more than a croak. I was bent far
over the side of the box, swaying slightly, propped up by one hand while I mopped my face with a
handkerchief held in the other. I'd had plenty of time to figure it out and I think I looked the way I think I
ought to have looked. At least, I hoped I did. "I -- I think I'm going to pass out. Is there -- is there no
water?"
"Water?" The judge sounded half-impatient, half-sympathetic. "I'm afraid there's no------"
"Over there," I gasped. I waved weakly to a spot on the other side of the officer who was guarding me.
"Please!"
The policeman turned away -- I'd have been astonished if he hadn't -- and as he turned I pivoted on both
toes and brought my left arm whipping across just below waist level -- three inches higher and that
studded and heavily brass-buckled belt he wore around his middle would have left me needing a new
pair of knuckles. His explosive grunt of agony was still echoing through the shocked stillness of the
court-room when I spun him round as he started to fall, snatched the heavy Colt from his holster and was
waving it gently around the room even before the policeman had struck the side of the box and slid,
coughing and gasping painfully for air, to the wooden floor.
I took in the whole scene with one swift sweeping glance. The man with the broken nose was staring at
me with an expression as near amazement as his primitive features could register, his mouth fallen open,
the mangled stub of his cigar clinging impossibly to the corner of his lower lip. The girl with the
dark-blonde hair was bent forward, wide-eyed, her hand to her face, her thumb under her chin and her
fore-finger crooked across her mouth. The judge was no longer a judge, he was a waxen effigy of
himself, as motionless in his chair as if he had just come from the sculptor's hands. The clerk, the
reporter, the door attendant were as rigid as the judge, while the group of school-girls and the elderly
spinster in charge were as goggle-eyed as ever, but the curiosity had gone from their faces and fear
stepped in to take its place: the teenager nearest me had her eyebrows arched high up into her forehead
and her lips were trembling, she looked as if she were going to start weeping or screaming any moment. I
hoped, vaguely, that it wasn't going to be screaming, then an instant later I realised that it didn't matter for
there was likely going to be a great deal of noise in the very near future indeed. The sheriff hadn't been so
unarmed as I had supposed: he was reaching for his gun.
His draw was not quite the clean swift blurring action to which the cinema of my youth had accustomed
me. The long flapping tails of Ms alpaca coat impeded his hand and he was further hindered by the arm
of his cane chair. Fully four seconds elapsed before he reached the butt of his gun.
"Don't do it, Sheriff!" I said quickly. "This cannon in my hand is pointing right at you."
But the little man's courage, or foolhardiness, seemed to be an inverse proportion to his size. You could
tell by his eyes, by the lips ever so slightly drawn back over the tightly clamped tobacco-stained teeth,
that there was going to be no stopping him. Except in the only possible way. At the full stretch of my arm
I raised the revolver until the barrel was level with my eyes -- this business of dead-eye Dan
snapshooting from the hip is strictly for the birds -- and as the sheriff's hand came clear of the folds of his
jacket I squeezed the trigger. The reverberating boom of that heavy Colt, magnified many times by the
confining walls of that small court-house, quite obliterated any other sound. Whether the sheriff cried out
or the bullet struck his hand or the gun in his hand no one could say: all we could be sure of was what we
saw, and that was the sheriff's right arm and whole right side jerking convulsively and the gun spinning
backwards to land on a table inches from the notebook of the startled reporter.
Already my Colt was lined up on the man at the door.
"Come and join us, friend," I invited. "You look as if you might be having ideas about fetching help." I
waited till he was halfway down the aisle then whirled round quickly as I heard a scuffling noise behind
me.
There had been no need for haste. The policeman was on his feet, but that was all that could be said for
him. He was bent almost double, one hand clutching his midriff, the knuckles of the other all but brushing
the floor: he was whooping violently, gasping for the breath to ease the pain in his body. Then he slowly
straightened to a crouched stooping position, and there was no fear in his face, only hurt and anger and
shame and a do-or-die determination.
"Call off your watchdog, Sheriff," I said curtly. "He's liable to get hurt real bad next time."
The sheriff glared at me venomously and spat out one single unprintable word. He was hunched in his
chair, left hand tightly gripping his right wrist: he gave every impression of a man too preoccupied with his
own hurt to worry about any damage to others.
"Give me that gun!" the policeman demanded hoarsely. His throat seemed to be constricted, he had
difficulty in forcing out even those few words. He had taken one lurching step forward and was no more
than six feet away. He was only a kid, hardly a day over twenty-one.
"Judge!" I said urgently.
"Don't do it, Donnelly'" Judge Mollison had shaken off the first numbing shock. "Don't da it! That man's a
killer. He's got nothing to lose by killing again. Stay where you are."
"Give me that gun." Judge Mollison might have been talking to himself for all the effect his words had had.
it is no longer a decision but the sole obsessive reason for his existence.
"Stay where you are, sonny," I said quietly. "Like the judge said, I have nothing to lose. Take another
step forward and I'm going to shoot you in the thigh. Have you any idea what a soft-nosed low-velocity
lead bullet does, Donnelly? If it gets your thigh-bone it'll smash it so badly that you'll be like me and walk
with a limp for the rest of your life: if it gets the femoral artery you'll like as not bleed to death before --
you fool!"
For the second time the court-room shook to the sharp crack and the hollow reverberations of the Colt.
Donnelly was on the floor, both hands gripped round his lower thigh, staring up at me with an expression
compounded of incomprehension and dazed disbelief,
"We've all got to learn sometime," I said flatly. I glanced at the doorway, the shots were bound to have
attracted attention, but there was no one there. Not that I was anxious on this point: apart from the two
constables -- both of them temporarily unfit for duty -- who had jumped me at the La Contessa, the
sheriff and Donnelly constituted the entire police force of Marble Springs. But even so, delay was as
foolish as it was dangerous.
"You won't get far, Talbot!" The sheriff's thin-lipped mouth twisted itself into exaggerated movements as
he spoke through tightly clenched teeth. "Within five minutes of you leaving, every law officer in the
county will be looking for you: within fifteen minutes the call will be state-wide." He broke off, wincing, as
a spasm of pain twisted his face, and when he looked at me again his expression wasn't pretty. "The call's
going out for a murderer, Talbot, an armed murderer: they'll have orders to shoot on sight and shoot to
kill."
"Look, now, Sheriff------" the judge began, but got no further.
"Sorry, Judge. He's mine." The sheriff looked down at the policeman lying groaning on the floor. "The
moment he took that gun he stopped being your business.... You better get going, Talbot: you won't have
far to run."
"Shoot to kill, eh?" I said thoughtfully. I looked round the court. "No, no, not the gentlemen -- they might
start getting death or glory ideas about having medals pinned on them...."
"What the hell you talking about?" 'the sheriff demanded.
"Nor the young ladies of the high school. Hysteria..." I murmured. I shook my head then looked at the girl
with the dark-blonde hair. "Sorry, miss, it'll have to be you."
"What -- what do you mean?" Maybe she was scared, maybe she was just acting scared. "What do you
want? "
"You. You heard what the Lone Ranger said -- as soon as the cops see me they're going to start
shooting at everything in sight. "But they wouldn't shoot at a girl, especially not at one as good looking as
you. I'm in a jam, miss, and I need an insurance policy. You're it. Come on."
"Damn it, Talbot, you can't do that!" Judge Mollison sounded hoarse, frightened. "An innocent girl. You'd
put her life in danger-----"
"Not me," I pointed out. "If anybody's going to put her life in danger it'll be the friends of the sheriff here."
"But -- but Miss Ruthven is my guest. I -- I invited her here this afternoon to------"
"Contravention of the rules of the old southern hospitality. I know. Emily Post would have something to
say about this." I caught her by the arm, pulled her none too gently to her feet and outside into the aisle.
"Hurry up, miss, we haven't------"
I dropped her arm and took one long step up the aisle, clubbed pistol already reversed and swinging. For
some time now I'd had my eye on the broken-nosed character three seats behind the girl and the play
and shift of expression across the broken landscape of his Neanderthalic features as he struggled to
arrive at and finally make a decision couldn't have been more clearly indicated by ringing bells and
coloured lights.
He was almost vertical and halfway out into the aisle, with his right hand reaching deep under the lapel of
his coat when the butt end of my Colt caught his right elbow. The impact jarred even my arm so I could
only guess what it did to his: quite a lot, if his anguished howl and sudden collapse back into the bench
were any criterion. Maybe I'd misjudged the man, maybe he'd only been reaching for another cigar; that
would teach him not to carry a cigar-case under his left armpit.
He was still making a great deal of noise when I hobbled my way swiftly up the aisle, pulled the girl out
into the porch, slammed the door and locked it. That would only give me ten seconds, fifteen at the most,
but it was all I needed. I grabbed the girl's hand and ran down the path to the street.
There were two cars parked by the kerb. One, an open Chevrolet without any official markings, was the
police car in which the sheriff, Donnelly and I had arrived at the court, the other, presumably Judge
Mollison's, a low-built Studebaker Hawk. The judge's looked to be the faster car of the two, but most of
these American cars had automatic drive controls with which I was quite unfamiliar: I didn't know how to
drive a Studebaker and the time it would take me to find out could b® fatal. On the other hand, I did
know how to operate the automatic drive on a Chevrolet. On the way up to the courthouse I'd sat up
front beside the sheriff, who drove, and I hadn't missed a move he made.
"Get in!" I nodded my head in the direction of the police car. "Fast!"
I saw her open the door out of a corner of an eye while I spared a few moments for the Studebaker. The
quickest and most effective way of immobilising any car is by smashing its distributor. I spent three or
four seconds hunting for the bonnet catch before I gave it up and turned my attention to the front tyre
nearest me. Had it been a tubeless tyre and had I been carrying my usual automatic, the small-calibre
steel-jacketed bullet might have failed to make more than a tiny hole, no sooner made than sealed: as it
was, the mushrooming Colt bullet split the sidewall wide open and the Studebaker settled with a heavy
bump.
The girl was already seated in the Chevrolet. Without bothering to open the door I vaulted over the side
into the driving-seat, took one swift glance at the dashboard, grabbed the white plastic handbag the girl
held in her lap, broke the catch and ripped the material in my hurry to open it, and emptied the contents
on the seat beside me. The car keys were on the top of the pile, which meant she'd shoved them right to
the bottom of her bag. I'd have taken long odds that she was good and scared, but longer odds still that
she wasn't terrified.
"I suppose you thought that was clever?" I switched on the motor, pressed the automatic drive button,
released the handbrake and gunned the motor so savagely that the rear tyres spun and whined furiously
on the loose gravel before getting traction. "Try anything like that again and you'll be sorry. Regard that as
a promise."
I am a fairly experienced driver and where road-holding and handling are concerned I am no admirer of
American cars: but when it came to straight-forward acceleration those big V-8 engines could make the
average British and European sports models look silly. The Chevrolet leapt forward as if it had been
fitted with a rocket-assisted take-off -- I suspected that being a police car it might have had a hotted-up
engine -- and when I'd straightened it up and had time for a fast look in the mirror we were a hundred
yards away from the courthouse: I had time only for a glimpse of the judge and the sheriff running out on
to the road, staring after the Chevrolet, before a sharp right-angle bend came sweeping towards us: a
quick twist of the wheel to the right, a four-wheel drift, the back end breaking away, another twist of the
wheel to the left and then, still accelerating, we were clear of the town limits and heading into the open
country.
CHAPTER II
We were heading almost due north along the highway, a white and dusty ribbon of road built up several
feet above the level of the surrounding land. Away to our left the Gulf of Mexico glittered and twinkled
like an opalescent emerald under the broiling sun. Between the road and the sea was a flat uninteresting
belt of low mangrove coast, to our right swampy forests not of palms or palmettos as I would have
expected to find in those parts but pine, and disheartened-looking scrub pine at that.
I wasn't enjoying the ride. I was pushing the Chev along as fast as I dared, and the soft swinging
suspension gave me no feeling of security at all. I had no sun-glasses, and even though the sun was not
directly in my face the savage glare of sub-tropical light off that road was harsh and hurtful to the eyes. It
was an open car, but the windscreen was so big and deeply curved that we got almost no cooling benefit
at all from the wind whistling by our ears at over eighty miles an hour. Back in the court-room, the shade
temperature had been close on a hundred: what it was out here in the open I couldn't even begin to
guess. But it was hot, furnace hot: I wasn't enjoying the ride.
Neither was the girl beside me. She hadn't even bothered to replace the stuff I'd emptied out of her bag,
just sat there with her hands clasped tightly together. Now and again, as we took a fast corner, she
reached out to grab the upper edge of the door but otherwise she'd made no movement since we'd left
Marble Springs except to tie a white bandanna over her fair hair. She didn't once look at me, I didn't
even know what colour her eyes were. And she certainly didn't once speak to me. Once or twice I
glanced at her and each time she was staring straight ahead, lips compressed, face pale, a faint red patch
burning high up in her left cheek. She was still scared, maybe more scared than ever. Maybe she was
wondering what was going to happen to her. I was wondering about that myself.
Eight miles and eight minutes out of Marble Springs the expected happened. Somebody certainly seemed
to have thought and moved even faster.
The expected was a road-block. It came at a point where some enterprising firm had built up the land to
the right of the road with crashed stone and coral, asphalted it and built a filling station and drivers'
pull-up. Right across the road a car had been drawn up, a big black police car -- if the two pivoting
searchlights and the big red "STOP "light were not enough, the eight-inch white-lettered "POLICE "sign
would have removed a§ doubt. To the left, just beyond the nose of the police car, the land dropped
sharply four or five feet into a ditch that lifted only slowly to the mangrove coast beyond: there was no
escape that way. To the right, where the road widened and angled into the courtyard of the filling station,
a vertically upright line of black corrugated fifty-gallon oil drums completely blocked the space between
the police car and the first of the line of petrol pumps that paralleled the road.
All this I saw in the four or five seconds it took me to bring the shuddering skidding Chevrolet down from
70 to 30 m.p.h., the high-pitched scream in our ears token of the black smoking trail of melted rubber
that we were leaving on the white road behind us. I saw, too, the policemen, one crouched behind the
bonnet of the police car, a second with his head and right arm just visible above the boot: both of them
carried revolvers. A third policeman was standing upright and almost completely hidden behind the
nearest petrol pump, but there was nothing hidden about his gun, that most lethal of all close-quarters
weapons, a whipper, a sawn-off handgrip shotgun firing 20-gauge medium-lead shot.
I was down to 20 m.p.h. now, not more than forty yards distant from the block. The policemen, guns
levelled on my head, were rising up and moving out into the open when out of the corner of my eye I
caught a glimpse of the girl reaching for the handle of the door and half-turning away from me as she
gathered herself for the leap out of the car. I said nothing, just leaned across, grabbed her arm, jerked
her towards me with a savage force that made her gasp with pain and, in the same instant that I
transferred my grip to her shoulders and held her half against half in front of me so that the police dared
not shoot, jammed my foot flat down on the accelerator.
"You madman! You'll kill us!" For a split second of time she stared at the row of fifty-gallon drums
rushing up to meet us, the terror in her face accurately reflecting the terror in her voice, then turned away
with a cry and buried her face in my coat, the nails of her hands digging into my upper arms.
We hit the second drum from the left fair and square with the centre of our fender. Subconsciously, I
tightened my grip on the girl and the steering wheel and braced myself for the numbing shattering shock,
the stunning impact that would crash me against the steering-wheel or pitch me through the windscreen as
the 500-lb. dead weight of that drum sheared the chassis retaining bolts and smashed the engine back
into the driving compartment. But there was no such convulsive shock, just a screeching of metal and a
great hollow reverberating clang as the fender lifted the dram clear off the road, a moment of shock when
I thought the dram would be carried over the bonnet of the car to smash the windscreen and pin us to the
seat. With my free hand I jerked the wheel violently to the left and the cartwheeling drum bounced across
the nearside wing and vanished from sight as I regained the road, jerked the wheel in the opposite
direction and straightened out. The oil drum had been empty. And not a shot had been fired.
Slowly the girl lifted her head, stared over my shoulder at the road-block dwindling in the distance, then
stared at me. Her hands were still gripping both my shoulders, but she was completely unaware of it.
"You're mad." I could hardly catch the husky whisper through the crescendo roar of the engine. "You're
mad, you must be. Crazy mad." Maybe she hadn't been terrified earlier on, but she was now.
"Move over, lady," I requested. "You're blocking my view."
She moved, perhaps six inches, but her eyes, sick with fear, were still on me. She was trembling violently.
"You're mad," she repeated. "Please, please let me out."
"I'm not mad." I was paying as much attention to my rear mirror as to the road ahead. "I think a little,
Miss Ruthven, and I'm observant. They couldn't have had more than a couple of minutes to prepare that
road-block -- and it takes more than a couple of minutes to bring six full drums out of store and
manhandle them into position. The drum I hit had its filling hole turned towards me -- and there was no
bung. It had to be empty. And as for letting you out -- well, I'm afraid I can't spare the tune. Take a look
behind you."
She looked.
"They -- they're coming after us!"
"What did you expect them to do -- go into the restaurant and have a cup of coffee?"
The road was closer to the sea, now, and winding to follow the indentations of the coast. Traffic was
fairly light, but enough to hold me back from overtaking on some blind corners, and the police car behind
was steadily gaining on me: the driver knew his car better than I did mine, and the road he obviously
knew like the back of his hand. Ten minutes from the road-block he had crept up to within a hundred
and fifty yards of us.
The girl had been watching the pursuing car for the past few minutes. Now she turned and stared at me.
She made an effort to keep her voice steady, and almost succeeded.
"What's -- what's going to happen now?"
"Anything," I said briefly. "They'll likely play rough. I don't think they can be any too pleased with what
happened back there." Even as I finished speaking there came, in quick succession, two or three
whip-like cracks clearly audible above the whine of the tyres and the roar of the engine. A glance at the
girl's face told me I didn't need to spell out what was happening. She knew aE right
"Get down," I ordered. "That's it, right down on the floor. Your head, too. Whether it's bullets or a crash,
your best chance is down there."
When she was crouched so low that all I could see was her shoulders and the back of her blonde head I
eased the revolver out of my pocket, abruptly removed my foot from the accelerator, grabbed for the
handbrake and hauled hard.
With no tell-tale warning from the foot-operated braking lights, the slowing down of the Chevrolet was as
unexpected as it was abrupt, and the screech of tyres and violent slewing of the pursuing police car
showed that the driver had been caught completely off balance. I loosed off one quick shot and as I did
the windscreen in front of me shattered and starred as a bullet went clear through the centre of it: I fired a
second time, and the police car skidded wildly and finished up almost broadside across the road, the
nearside front wheel into the ditch on the right-hand side of the road. It was the sort of uncontrollable
skid that might have come from a front tyre blowout.
Certainly no harm had come to the policemen inside, within a couple of seconds of hitting the ditch all
three were out on the road, squeezing off shots after us as fast as they could pull the triggers: but we were
already a hundred, a hundred and fifty yards away and for all the value of revolvers and riot guns in
distance work of this kind they might as well have been throwing stones at us. In a few seconds we
rounded a curve and they were lost to sight.
"All right," I said. "The war's over. You can get up, Miss Ruthven."
She straightened and pushed herself back on the seat. Some dark-blonde hair had fallen forward over
her face, so she took off her bandanna, fixed her hair and pulled the bandanna on again. Women, I
thought: if they fell over a cliff and thought there was company waiting at the bottom, they'd comb their
hair on the way down.
When she'd finished tying the knot under her chin she said in a subdued voice, without looking at me:
"Thank you for making me get down. I -- I might have been killed there."